<h1> Log Analysis Using Regular Expressions </h1>

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Generate reports](#generate-reports)
3. [Visualize reports](#visualize-reports)

# Introduction

- Imagine your company uses a server that runs a service called ticky, an internal ticketing system. The service logs events to syslog, both when it runs successfully and when it encounters errors.

- The service's developers need your help getting some information from those logs so that they can better understand how their software is used and how to improve it. So, for this lab, you'll write some automation scripts that will process the system log and generate reports based on the information extracted from the log files.

**What you'll do**

- Use regex to parse a log file
- Append and modify values in a dictionary
- Write to a file in CSV format
- Move files to the appropriate directory for use with the CSV->HTML converter

# Generate reports

Now, we're going to practice creating a script, named ticky_check.py, that generates two different reports from this internal ticketing system log file i.e., syslog.log. This script will create the following reports:

- **The ranking of errors generated by the system**: A list of all the error messages logged and how many times each error was found, sorted by the most common error to the least common error. This report doesn't take into account the users involved.
- **The user usage statistics for the service**: A list of all users that have used the system, including how many info messages and how many error messages they've generated. This report is sorted by username.

To create these reports write a python script named ticky_check.py. Use nano editor for this.

```bash
nano ticky_check.py
```

Add the shebang line.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
```

Here's your challenge: Write a script to generate two different reports based on the ranking of errors generated by the system and the user usage statistics for the service. You'll write the script on your own, but we'll guide you throughout.

First, import all the Python modules that you'll use in this Python script. After importing the necessary modules, initialize two dictionaries: one for the number of different error messages and another to count the number of entries for each user (splitting between INFO and ERROR).

Now, parse through each log entry in the syslog.log file by iterating over the file.

For each log entry, you'll have to first check if it matches the **INFO** or **ERROR** message formats. You should use regular expressions for this. When you get a successful match, add one to the corresponding value in the per_user dictionary. If you get an **ERROR** message, add one to the corresponding entry in the error dictionary by using proper data structure.

After you've processed the log entries from the syslog.log file, you need to sort both the `per_user` and `error` dictionary before creating CSV report files.

Keep in mind that:

- The `error` dictionary should be sorted by the number of errors from most common to least common.
- The `user` dictionary should be sorted by username.

Insert column names as ("Error", "Count") at the `zero` index position of the sorted error dictionary. And insert column names as ("Username", "INFO", "ERROR") at the zero index position of the sorted `per_user` dictionary.

After sorting these dictionaries, store them in two different files: **error_message.csv** and **user_statistics.csv**.

Save the **ticky_check.py** file by clicking Ctrl-o, Enter key, and Ctrl-x.

# Visualize reports

First, give executable permission to the Python script ticky_check.py.

```bash
chmod +x ticky_check.py
```

Run the ticky_check.py by using the following command:

```bash
./ticky_check.py
```

Executing ticky_check.py will generate two report file **error_message.csv** and **user_statistics.csv**.

You can now visualize the **error_message.csv** and **user_statistics.csv** by converting them to HTML pages. To do this, pass the files one by one to the script **csv_to_html.py** file, like we did in the previous section.

To convert the **error_message.csv** into HTML file run the following command:

```bash
./csv_to_html.py error_message.csv /var/www/html/<html-filename>.html
```

Replace \<html-filename> with the name of your choice.

To convert **user_statistics.csv** into HTML file, run the following command:

```bash
./csv_to_html.py user_statistics.csv /var/www/html/<html-filename>.html
```

Replace \<html-filename> with the new name

Now, to view these HTML pages, open any web-browser and enter the following URL in the search bar.

**[linux-instance-external-IP]/[html-filename].html**
